---
layout: post
title: Board Game Design Tour - Hill 218
---
In the last half year or so, I've started playing more short two player games. I've recently come across two games which I think are fantastic: [_The Battle for Hill 218_](http://www.boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/32484/the-battle-for-hill-218) and [_Hive_](http://www.boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/2655/hive). Today I'll be examining _Hill 218_, and on a later date I'll look at Hive.

### Overview

Hill 218 is a strong game because it is very strategically interesting without a multitude of rules to keep track of. In fact, there are only two mechanics you need to remember to play the game: where you can place new cards, and how cards attack. Each turn, you simply draw two cards, then play two. Cards have to be played along a supply chain that connects to your base - each card has a diagram showing what directions it can draw supply from, and if there are any cards in any of those directions with supply, it has supply. Once you've played a card, it gets to attack any one target in any location it is able to attack to (as indicated by a diagram on the card). In order to kill an opposing troop, you need to have another soldier, already in play, who is able to support into that location (again, as indicated in a diagram on the card). Two cards have a different attack symbol, which indicates that they can kill without supporting fire. The first player to place their own soldier legally on their opponent's base wins the game.

### What's so great about it?

_Easy to learn, hard to master._
You can get a player up to speed so that they can at least play the game legally within a couple of minutes. They can even do respectably in the first couple of games - which, when you compare to games such as _Agricola_, which requires many long lasting games in order for players to start to comprehend strategy, is fantastic!

_The game is very portable._
 The only "board" is an unaligned card (the Hill) around which a grid is imagined. The game is contained in a standard size playing card box, so it is very easy to bring along in case you have a minute to spare to play

_Strategically interesting, but still plays very quickly._
Games of _Hill 218_ generally take between 5 and 20 minutes. This is great for everyone - new players aren't overwhelmed by hours of gameplay when they don't feel like they understand the strategy of the game; in fact, anyone who makes a bad decision early in the game isn't doomed to pay for it for the next 4 hours (I'm looking at you, _Civilization_ and _Le Harvre_). The quick play makes it perfect for waiting in line, or a break during work; however, unlike many other quick games I've played, it's still packed with strategy. Nearly every game forces players to make interesting decisions and tradeoffs, and there are many different strategies which can work. For instance, I try to kill as many units as possible, even at the cost of not taking stabs towards seizing my opponents base when they might occur if I can instead kill more of their troops.

_Imperfect Information._
Perhaps it is not a fundamental aspect of what makes the game work so well, but I enjoy the dynamic of imperfect information. Players are forced to gamble on weather their opponent has a card which might be able to take advantage of an opening with nearly every move.